These are the AI Powered Coding Assistants that you should know about.
First up is Curser.
Curser is like VS Code, but rebuilt from the ground up with AI in mind.
It's designed so that you can talk to your codebase directly, generate new files, and
even refactor entire projects with natural language.
Next up is Positron Assistant, built right into Positron.
Positron Assistant is tuned for data science, dashboard, and Python app workflows.
You can ask it to write code, explain errors, or even create a shiny or streamlined app
all from scratch without leaving your IDE.
Next up is Windsurf.
Windsurf is an AI-first IDE with focus on agentic workflows, meaning it can actually
plan and execute coding tasks for you.
And lastly, GitHub Copilot is the OG AI Coding Assistant.
Copilot lives inside of your editor and predicts what you're trying to code before you even
finish typing.
Perfect for generating boilerplate, filling in function logic, or speeding up the repetitive
coding tasks.
Make sure you leave any questions in the comments below and follow along for more data science
content.